---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
#  Basics of Malware 
### History
**1986**  First malware created by two Pakistani brothers who were tired of their software being pirated. 

**1988**	One of the first computer worms distributed via the internet written by Robert Morris.

**2010** 	Stuxnet is a malicious worm that targets SCADA systems and damaged Iran’s nuclear program.

Malware exists for various reasons, like financial gain, spying, defacement or destruction, political advantage, and is employed mostly 
by governments and organized crime although the lone anonymous user has gained popularity. 

### Definitions and examples 
- Malware: MALicious softWARE
- Viruses: parasitic, polymorphic, worm
- Trojans: backdoor downloader, password stealer, key logger 
- PUP: Potentially Unwanted Program also PUA, PUS like Adware, spyware, toolbars
- White: clean 
- Black: dirty, infected
- Gray: undetermined if white or black
- Sample: piece of malware, an example
- Goat: sacrificial file or system used for virus testing
- Replication: copying or reproducing something 
- Hash: function used to map data of arbitrary size onto data of fixed size

### Naming Convention 
- Type: Trojan
- Platform: win32/	 
- Family: Reveton
- Variant: .T
- Information: !lnk

**RESULT:** TrojanWin32/Reveton.T!lnk

### Handling Malware
- Transport in an inactive state. Pws archive, rename extension using cmd
- Lockdown development environment. Antimalware, firewall, policies
- Be ready to disconnect from the network at the drop of a hat.

### Replication 

Key factors for a successful replication are an isolated environment, a hardened VM, and bait.
To measure replication we need to observe what events or changes occurred during replication, which of these were caused by the sample 
vs background noise and what was the impact of these changes.

### Basic Tools to Detect Malware

Windows tools that could be used to detect malware are Task manager, MS config, Search, IPconfig /display DNS. This week we were also introduced to the following commercial malware detection/analysis tools:
- Flypaper: prevents processes from exiting.
- Fakenet: is a tool that aids in the dynamic analysis of malicious software.  The tool simulates a network so that malware interacting with a remote host continues to run allowing the analyst to observe the malware’s network activity from within a safe environment. <sup>1</sup>
- Process Monitor: is an advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time File System, Registry and Process/Thread activity. <sup>2</sup>
- Process Explorer: shows you information about which handles and DLLs processes have opened or loaded. <sup>3</sup>
- Antispy: handy anti-virus and rootkit tools. It can detect, analyze and restore various kernel modifications, just like ssdt hooks. <sup>4</sup>

### Advanced Persistent Threats as defined by US Airforce
- **Advanced:** The attacker is fluent with cyber intrusion methods and administrative techniques and is capable of crafting custom exploits 
  and related tools.
- **Persistent:** Attacker has an objective or mission and works to achieve their goals without detection.
- **Threat:** The attacker is organized, receives instructions, is sufficiently funded to perform their operations and is motivated. 

### APT Kill Chain 
1.	Reconnaissance
2.	Weaponization
3.	Delivery
4.	Exploitation
5.	Installation
6.	Command and Control
7.	Actions on Objectives

### Dynamic Analysis
Executed while a program is in operation. A dynamic test will monitor system memory, functional behavior, response time, and overall 
performance of the system.

### Static Analysis
Performed in a non-runtime environment. Typically, a static analysis tool will inspect program code for all possible run-time 
behaviors and seek out coding flaws, back doors, and potentially malicious code.

### References
1.	FakeNet, https://practicalmalwareanalysis.com/fakenet/
2.	J.C. Hornbeck, Process Monitor – Hands –On Labs and Examples, Microsoft | TechNet, Jan 24th 2008, https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/appv/2008/01/24/process-monitor-hands-on-labs-and-examples/
3.	Mark Russinovich, Process Explorer v16.26, Microsoft Docs, June 28th 2019, https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/process-explorer
4.	Description under About tab from AntiSpy software. 

